Dsptools examples (#457)
ucb-bar/chipyard: docs/Customization/Dsptools-Blocks.rst

> .. _dsptools-blocks:

Reviewer: @grebe , I think there should be some introduction to DSP tools. I know there is some in the dsp-tools README, but I don't think it's sufficient.

This page talks about Ring operations which could use some additional introduction

> Dsptools Blocks

Reviewer: There needs to be some introduction here. 
What is the main use-case here? (DSP chains....)
Why does this main use-case need a different flow than the standard MMIO method?

===============
 

> Another way to create a MMIO peripheral is to use the Dsptools library for Chisel. In this method, a chain is created by placing a custom module inside a ``DspBlock`` and sandwiching that block between a ``ReadQueue`` and ``WriteQueue``. Those queues then act as memory mapped interfaces to the Rocket Chip SoCs. This section will again primarily focuso n designing Tilelink-based peripherals. However, through the resources provided in Dsptools, one could also define an AXI4-based peripheral by following similar steps.

Reviewer: When you say "chain", do you mean a streaming interface?

> Another way to create a MMIO peripheral is to use the Dsptools library for Chisel. In this method, a chain is created by placing a custom module inside a ``DspBlock`` and sandwiching that block between a ``ReadQueue`` and ``WriteQueue``. Those queues then act as memory mapped interfaces to the Rocket Chip SoCs. This section will again primarily focuso n designing Tilelink-based peripherals. However, through the resources provided in Dsptools, one could also define an AXI4-based peripheral by following similar steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to create a MMIO peripheral is to use the Dsptools library for Chisel. In this method, a chain is created by placing a custom module inside a ``DspBlock`` and sandwiching that block between a ``ReadQueue`` and ``WriteQueue``. Those queues then act as memory mapped interfaces to the Rocket Chip SoCs. This section will again primarily focus on designing Tilelink-based peripherals. However, through the resources provided in Dsptools, one could also define an AXI4-based peripheral by following similar steps.
```

> Another way to create a MMIO peripheral is to use the Dsptools library for Chisel. In this method, a memory interface is created by creating a "chain". This chain consists of a custom module placed inside a ``DspBlock``, which is then sandwiched between a ``ReadQueue`` and ``WriteQueue``. Those queues then act as memory mapped interfaces to the Rocket Chip SoCs. This section will again primarily focus on designing Tilelink-based peripherals. However, through the resources provided in Dsptools, one could also define an AXI4-based peripheral by following similar steps.

Reviewer: Can you clarify the difference between adding an MMIO peripheral using this method vs. the "usual" method. In other words: is this a "special case" of the general method, or is this an alternative?

> For this example, we will show you how to connect a simple FIR filter created using Dsptools as an MMIO peripheral. The full code can be found in ``generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/GenericFIR.scala``.

Reviewer: Is there a documentation page somewhere that talks about how to write an FIR filter using Dsptools?

> We module ``GenericFIR`` links together a variable number of ``GenericFIRDirectCell`` submodules which work togther to perform the filtering. It is important to note that both modules are type generic, which means that they can be instantiated for any datatype that implements ``Ring`` operations per the specifications on ``T``.

Reviewer: Can you clarify the first sentence here?

> For this example, we will show you how to connect a simple FIR filter created using Dsptools as an MMIO peripheral. The full code can be found in ``generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/GenericFIR.scala``. That being said, one could substitute any module with a ready valid interface in the place of the FIR and achieve the same results. As long as the read and valid signals of the module are attached to those of a corresponding ``DSPBlock`` wrapper, and that wrapper is placed in a chain with a ``ReadQueue`` and a ``WriteQueue``, following the general outline establised by these steps will allow you to interact with that block as a memory mapped IO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we will show you how to connect a simple FIR filter created using Dsptools as an MMIO peripheral. The full code can be found in ``generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/GenericFIR.scala``. That being said, one could substitute any module with a ready valid interface in the place of the FIR and achieve the same results. As long as the ready and valid signals of the module are attached to those of a corresponding ``DSPBlock`` wrapper, and that wrapper is placed in a chain with a ``ReadQueue`` and a ``WriteQueue``, following the general outline established by these steps will allow you to interact with that block as a memory mapped IO
```

Reviewer: Also, what would be other good examples of things other than FIR to implement using this method?

> The module ``GenericFIR`` is the overall wrapper of our FIR module. This module links together a variable number of ``GenericFIRDirectCell`` submodules, each of which performs the computations for one coefficient in a FIR direct form architecture. It is important to note that both modules are type generic, which means that they can be instantiated for any datatype that implements ``Ring`` operations per the specifications on ``T``.

Reviewer: Could you add a diagram to clarify this?

.. literalinclude:: ../../generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/GenericFIR.scala
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOC include start: TLGenericFIRBlock chisel
    :end-before: DOC include end: TLGenericFIRBlock chisel

We can then construct the final chain by utilizing the ``TLWriteQueue`` and ``TLReadeQueue`` modules found in ``generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/DspBlocks.scala``. Inside our chain, we construct an instance of each queue as well as our ``TLGenericFIRBlock``. We then take the ``steamnode`` from each module and wire them all together to link the chain.

.. literalinclude:: ../../generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/GenericFIR.scala
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOC include start: TLGenericFIRChain chisel
    :end-before: DOC include end: TLGenericFIRChain chisel

Top Level Traits
----------------
As in the previous MMIO example, we use a cake pattern to hook up our module to our SoC.

.. literalinclude:: ../../generators/example/src/main/scala/dsptools/GenericFIR.scala
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOC include start: CanHavePeripheryUIntTestFIR chisel
    :end-before: DOC include end: CanHavePeripheryUIntTestFIR chisel

> Note that this is the point at which we decide the datatype for our FIR. It is also possible with some reworking to push the datatype selection out to the top level.

Reviewer: If you're not going to explain what "reworking" you're talking about, I would just remove that comment

Our module does not need to be connected to concrete IOs or wires, so we do not need to create a concrete trait.

Constructing the Top and Config
-------------------------------

Once again following the path of the previous MMIO example, we now want to mix our traits into the system as a whole. The code is from ``generators/example/src/main/scala/Top.scala``

.. literalinclude:: ../../generators/example/src/main/scala/Top.scala
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOC include start: Top
    :end-before: DOC include end: Top

Finally, we create the configuration class in ``generators/example/src/main/scala/RocketConfigs.scala`` that uses the ``WithUIntTestFIR`` mixin defined in ``generators/example/src/main/scala/ConfigMixins.scala``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../generators/example/src/main/scala/ConfigMixins.scala
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOC include start: WithTestFIR
    :end-before: DOC include end: WithTestFIR

.. literalinclude:: ../../generators/example/src/main/scala/RocketConfigs.scala
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOC include start: FIRRocketConfig
    :end-before: DOC include end: FIRRocketConfig

Testing
-------

> We can now test that the FIR is working. The test program is found in ``tests/gcd.c``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now test that the FIR is working. The test program is found in ``tests/fir.c``.
```
